# Online Library
This project is an online library that allows you to manage a list of people and books. The project is built with Spring and Maven and uses JDBC Template to interact with the database.
## Getting Started
To get started with the project, you will need to have the following software installed on your machine:
- Java JDK 8 or higher
- Maven

## Features
## List of people
The project allows you to manage a list of people. You can view the list of people, add a new person with their full name and date of birth, update a person's information, or delete a person from the list.
## List of Books
The project also allows you to manage a list of books. You can view the list of books, add a new book with its name and date, update a book's information, or delete a book from the list.
## Borrowing and Returning Books
You can also borrow and return books from the library. When you borrow a book, you can select a person from the list who will be borrowing the book. You can also mark a book as returned when it is returned to the library.
## Free and Taken books
Books can be marked as free or taken. When a book is marked as taken, you can select a person from the list who has taken the book.
## Data base schema 
The project uses the following database schema:




```sh
CREATE TABLE Person (
    id int GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY PRIMARY KEY,
    full_name varchar(100) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
    year_of_birth int NOT NULL
);

CREATE TABLE Book (
    id int GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY PRIMARY KEY,
    title varchar(100) NOT NULL,
    author varchar(100) NOT NULL,
    year int NOT NULL,
    person_id int REFERENCES Person(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
);
```

## Conclusion

This project is a simple online library that demonstrates the use of Spring and Maven to build a web application. It provides basic features for managing a list of people and books, and allows you to borrow and return books from the library.
